.TH FAT 1 "August 04, 2025" "v0.1.0-beta" "FAT User Manual"

.SH NAME
fat \- a TUI file and archive viewer

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fat
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILE\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fat
is a modern, TUI-based file and archive viewer for the terminal. It is designed to quickly inspect text files, binary files (in a hex-dump view), and the contents of archives without needing to extract them first. It features a two-pane layout, with file metadata displayed on the left and content on the right.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\--force-text\fR
Force the file to be opened in text mode, overriding any plugin or default behavior.
.TP
\fB\--force-hex\fR
Force the file to be opened in hex mode, overriding any plugin or default behavior.
.TP
\fB-h, \--help\fR
Show the command-line help message and exit.

.SH FEATURES
.IP "•" 4
\fBPlugin-based Archive Support:\fR Natively handles .zip and .tar archives through a dynamic plugin system.
.IP "•" 4
\fBHex Viewer:\fR Automatically displays binary files in a traditional hex-dump format (offset, hex bytes, ASCII).
.IP "•" 4
\fBTheming:\fR Customize the entire UI using simple .json theme files. Default themes are copied to \fI~/.config/fat/themes/\fR on first run.
.IP "•" 4
\fBSearch:\fR Full-text search within text files and hex-value search within the binary viewer.

.SH KEYBINDINGS
The following keybindings are available in the main viewer:

.TP
.B q
Quit the application.
.TP
.B Up/Down Arrows, j/k
Navigate through files in an archive or scroll content line by line.
.TP
.B PageUp/PageDown
Scroll content page by page.
.TP
.B Home/gg, End/G
Jump to the start or end of the content.
.TP
.B Enter
View a selected file within an archive.
.TP
.B Esc
Go back to the parent archive or clear the current search.
.TP
.B F2
Open the theme selector menu to change the UI theme on the fly.
.TP
.B /
Enter search mode. Type a term and press Enter to find the first match.
.TP
.B n / N
Find the next or previous search match.
.TP
.B t
Toggle the view between normal text and binary (hex) mode for the current file.
.TP
.B O
Open the current file with an external command (e.g., "vim", "less").
.TP
.B ?
Display the in-app help screen.

.SH FILES
.TP
\fI~/.config/fat/fatrc\fR
The user-specific configuration file. Created on first run. Can be edited to set a default theme and define custom MIME type associations for text or hex viewing.
.TP
\fI~/.config/fat/themes/\fR
User-specific directory for custom \fB.json\fR theme files. Themes placed here will be available in the theme selector (F2).
.TP
\fI~/.config/fat/plugins/\fR
User-specific directory for custom plugin shared libraries (\fB.so\fR, \fB.dylib\fR).
.TP
\fI/usr/local/share/fat/themes/\fR
System-wide directory for default themes.
.TP
\fI/usr/local/lib/fat/plugins/\fR
System-wide directory for default plugins.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR less (1),
.BR vim (1),
.BR tar (1),
.BR zip (1)

.SH AUTHOR
This program was written by Zuhaitz and the rest of contributors (check CONTRIBUTORS.md).
```
